Department of Computer Science – CUSAT

Structured Knowledge Document for AI Chatbot

1. Basic Information

Department Name: Department of Computer Science University: Cochin
University of Science and Technology (CUSAT) Campus: CUSAT Main Campus,
Kalamassery, Kochi, Kerala, India

Contact Information: Phone: +91 484 2862301 Alternate Phone: +91 484
2576368 Email: csdir@cusat.ac.in

The Department of Computer Science focuses on advanced education and
research in computer science and information technology.

2. History of the Department

The Department of Computer Science was established in 1984. The first
academic program started by the department was the M.Tech in Computer
and Information Science. The department has since expanded into several
research and postgraduate education areas.

3. Mission

The mission of the department includes: - Promoting knowledge
development in computer science - Supporting research and innovation -
Providing modern computing infrastructure - Producing skilled
professionals for industry and academia

4. Academic Programs

M.Tech Programs: - M.Tech in Computer and Information Science - M.Tech
in Software Engineering

Research Program: - Ph.D in Computer Science

5. Research Areas

Research activities include: - Artificial Intelligence - Natural
Language Processing - Human Computer Interaction - Distributed
Computing - Software Engineering - Computer Networks - Mobile
Computing - Information Systems Engineering

6. Faculty

Head of Department: Dr. Madhu S. Nair – Professor and Head of Department

Senior Professor: Dr. Philip Samuel

Professor: Dr. G. Santhosh Kumar

Associate Professor: Dr. Bijoy A. Jose

Assistant Professors: Dr. Jereesh A. S Dr. Shailesh S Dr. Jeena
Kleenankandy Dr. Ajees A. P Dr. Remya K. Sasi

7. Emeritus Faculty

Dr. K. Poulose Jacob – Professor Emeritus

8. Facilities

The department provides multiple facilities including: - Computer
laboratories - Research laboratories - Internet enabled computing
infrastructure - Seminar halls and classrooms - Department library and
digital resources

9. Research Programs

The department offers doctoral research leading to a Ph.D in Computer
Science. Research scholars work under faculty supervision and contribute
to academic publications.

10. Academic Activities

The department regularly conducts: - Technical seminars - Research
presentations - Academic workshops - Guest lectures

11. Career Opportunities

Graduates from the department typically pursue careers in: - Software
development - Artificial intelligence - Data science - Research and
academia - Technology companies

12. Address

Department of Computer Science Cochin University of Science and
Technology CUSAT Campus Kalamassery Kochi – 682022 Kerala India

Phone: +91 484 2862301 Alternate Phone: +91 484 2576368 Email:
csdir@cusat.ac.in
